# Junior Seminar (CMPSC 580) Project Proposal

## Semester: Spring 2024

This document is to contain your project proposal. __As you complete each of the below sections in this document, please be sure to remove all preamble text so that it does not appear in your work.__

## GitHub Handle: @rebekahrudd

## Name: Rebekah Rudd

## Major: CS

## Project Title: Mandarin Study Tools

---

## Introduction

This article and tool specifically focus on learning Mandarin Chinese as a second language. The goal of this project is to provide a tool that will aid in that learning process. This prototype will reflect portions of the overall technology that will go into and be necessary for the finalized tool. After reading this article you will not only understand the inspiration and the many ideas and stages this project has come through and will go through but you will also understand the importance of this project and the feasibility of it.

## Literature Review

Language, as much as it enables us to communicate it also confines us. We can use language to communicate and we also need it to communicate. Our understanding of the world comes through language. In order for anything to make sense or for us to make sense of anything we rely on language. It is the lens through which all has to pass. Often times the language we speak is something we don't often think about and are surrounded by, like water to a fish. The languages we speak change our physical anatomy. Language impacts the wiring of our brains and the ways they fire. People who have a different structured language will use different parts of their brains and in different orders in order to speak. The English language is a subject verb noun language and so when people go to speak in English they first think about the who, the subject, and then immediately say the verb, whereas in Arabic the verb can come before the noun, other romance languages don't always include subjects, and in Chinese the verb goes at the end of the sentence. Languages are all constructed differently. Language for good or for worse defines our reality.

### The Importance of Language

Most people only speak one language in their lives. However, there are many benefits to learning a second language. First studies show it can improve your memory. Learning languages expands our knowledge and understanding. Secondly, it helps us better understand and appreciate our native tongues. It expands our perspective because things you take for granted, like the verb following the subject, you realize, are not always a given. Thirdly, learning another language can open doors and reveal broader opportunities for us. It helps you become more of a cross cultural and more cross culturally aware person. It opens doors to new communities. As Trevor Noah, the comedian, says in his book, Born A Crime, "A shared language says "We're the same." A language barrier says "We're different." Learning a language is a way to step out of your own world and into someone else's world. It's a way to make an effort to understand others.

Finally, in learning a language not only will you learn about others, but you will learn more about yourself. Everyone learns differently. Our brains all work differently. There are many different ways to learn and there are many different ways to help facilitate learning. How people learn and therefore how to teach them, specifically languages, is all connected. There are many resources and articles that discussion second language learning and teaching. These topics have been a topic long under discussion. For example Article 5 explores a teaching idea to engage elementary students in learning more about another language and culture. This article is specifically geared towards learning Mandarin as a second language. The idea centers around having a topic of study and then splitting the classroom up into groups to explore different facets of the topic. The kids will work together to learn about their specific topic and they will then present their findings to their classmates. In addition to different teaching methods, there are also articles about self learning methods and tools.

### The Foundation of Mandarin Chinese

Learning Mandarin is said to be one of the hardest languages for English speakers to understand and master. This is partly because they are foundationally quite different languages. See the Figure 1.1 for reference. There are many aspects that make Mandarin hard. For instance, the writing system for Mandarin does not teach one how to pronounce different words. So if a person is trying to learn the word for dog it will take more than just memorizing the word "perro" as is the translation to Spanish. The mandarin pinyin letters for the Chinese word dog are "g", "o", and "u". However, these letters only tell a person one part of how to say the word. Mandarin is a tonal language, which means in order to correctly say the word, one must know which of the four/five tones to say --sometimes people count the non tonal words as a fifth tone. This isn't always a huge translation barrier, especially as a beginner. People can often understand what a person is saying from context clues and association with other words in the sentence, this will only become really important when you know so many words that you need the tones to be able to differentiate what people are saying. But as with anything it is important to build good habits from the beginning because it is much harder to break bad habits than make good ones from the beginning. In our example the word "gou" has third tone. Then, after knowing both the letters, which help pronunciation for those with a native language that has an alphabet, and knowing the tone comes learning how to communicate through written language. Mandarin uses Chinese characters. The Chinese character for dog is 狗. However, once a person knows a character writing it isn't a free for all, In order to write the character properly a person must learn the correct stroke order and follow essentially the writing order rules --which become more second nature over time especially since characters share similar parts and pieces called radicals. As people write characters faster and faster having the correct stroke order becomes essential in recognizing a character. Both pinyin for Chinese as a second language learner, tone and stroke order of the character are all essential parts and pieces to learn Mandarin Chinese. All these different facets of learning Chinese are discussed in Article 4 and 6, along with all Mandarin learners being able to confirm this from their own experience.

Figure 1.1 [Language Tree](language_tree.webp)

The use of the internet has also greatly changed the way Chinese is learned and the available resources that people have to be able to learn Chinese and other foreign languages. This was the major discussion among most articles that have to do with learning Chinese as a second language. The articles referenced different technologies Chinese as a foreign language learners use, recommend, and were working on developing. However, one limitation of these articles is that most of them are out of date. While the ideas still relate, most of these technologies that are mentioned don't. More modern articles in discussion about technology that aid in learning and teaching Chinese as a second language are scarce. In order to find more modern technologies searching on the web proved most effective. However, even there many of the GitHub repositories connected to these topics and ideas were out of date and had deprecated code. On the other hand some of the more modern technologies like Skritter and Anki require fees to enable access to the full repository. Skritter is an app that works with writing Chinese and Japanese Language. This app focuses specifically on stroke order and writing. Anki is an advanced flash card app. Pleco is a free Chinese dictionary app that many Chinese as a second language learners use.

### Background and Motivation

In talking about this prototype and in brainstorming for a senior comprehensive project there are two considerations, what has been done and the goal for the finalized project. This article will discuss both along with the steps necessary in order to get from one to the other. The idea for this project comes from an understanding of the importance of learning languages and a desire to see more resources that will aid people in learning languages. This tool is specifically focused on Mandarin Chinese speaking and writing, as it can often be one of the harder languages for English speakers to learn, so that among other reasons is why it is important to have free and a variety of different tools to aid in learning Chinese.

## Prototype

Because Chinese can be qualified as a difficult language to learn this tool will provide a different way to engage with and learn the language. The ultimate goal is to create a physical device about the size of a 2x2" or 3x3", bigger than a smart watch but smaller than the size of your hand. This device will be for studying Mandarin. What software would be implemented on this device? Well the software would include at the most basic level a flashcard software. Once the flashcards are created the svgs from the GitHub repository Makemehanzi will be called and added to the stored flashcards or implemented once flashcards are reviewed. This way the user will be able to not only be reminded of the words and of the pinyin but also of the stroke order.

Right now the completed work reflects what it will take to create the different flashcard libraries. The first step that has been implemented has been working on reading in a picture first and then editing that picture. The next step is to extract the text from the picture and then use the extracted text to make flashcards from there.

Figure 1.2 [Imported Test Image](img1.png)

So the goal is to have a program that takes in files/pictures from textbooks and then turns them into flashcards. Right now this prototype  takes in a picture using open CV. One idea was to use Open CV in order to evaluate the svgs from the Makemehanzi GitHub repository but there is no resource in Open CV resource that evaluates pictures quite like that. Then an online resource aided in extracting the text from the scanned picture. The goal will be to use an open source library to do this so that all the steps of this platform will happen in house, rather than being outsourced and users having to go to different libraries for the different steps. Also in the src folder is a basic layout of a website to show how the flashcards will be stored. The basic layout from the website was from Aleth GitHub library. Leveraged this basic layout and additional functionality will be added to store flashcards. In addition, the webpages will be connected and a menu bar will be added to access all of the pages. Creating these flashcards will eventually become an automated process. So this website is just where there will be stored and it will be the interface the user interacts with to access their flashcards. It will then be possible to iterate through the html and xml files in the Inkstone GitHub Repository. NExt the text file can be evaluate throuhg a simple readlines command and then the lines can be split by the commas. Then the code would call the value at index 1 and would add it to the front of the flash card. The values at index 2 and 3, the pinyin and definition respectively would be added to the back side of the card. At least that is where the project is heading, before putting it on the device and continuing to work with Inkstone and hopefully modernize that code.

## Preliminary Results and Outcomes

This project will be tested and evaluated based on the code written. This code will be run using a command line prompt which will require the user to set up poetry so that they can run the program. A testing folder will be create and test files. These test suites will test the file to ensure it is working. In addition, poetry will be implemented and using poetry to install formatting dependencies like ruff and mypy along with a testing command. This will all ensure more usable and industrial standard code. However, this currently still isn't completely working. Right now the project requires the user's interaction in order to determine if the size of the picture was changed and if it was successfully cropped. Another idea for future works will be to automate this process as well, and automatically crop the photo by extracting the foreground, which there is a Open CV library relating to. In conclusion, as far as testing goes the plan is to add formatting checks and test suites/cases checks to gatorgrade and be able to evaluate the code that way. Moving forward these are the required checks and tests that will be implemented based on the code already implemented. The checks will ensure that the photo opens, it can be resized, it can be cropped, flashcards can be made, flashcards can be saved, and the website pages connect to each other.

## Conclusions and Future Work

I plan to continue working on this project in 600/610. This is one reason that there is a lot of code in the src folder that seems seemingly unconnected right now. Although this is not one executable artifact for this prototype this prototype reflects many of the small pieces that are laying the foundation for this project moving forward.
There are many different directions this project could go when thinking about future work. There are multiple different ways to take this project to the next level and advance it further. This final platform for this  tool could just be a website platform the takes in a picture and then based on the uploaded picture extracts the text and creates a set of flashcards based on the test. Then the user will scroll through and confirm the created flashcard set and make any necessary edits before confirming the set. The platform will either call the svg file or attach it to the flashcard so that the user will be able to see the stroke order after every time they review a word. There will also be an option with every set to choose if the user would prefer the stroke order to be displayed for not. Beyond implementing this as a website another option is to explore the path of implementing this project as an app. This would involve creating a working website and then transferring the code to Swift to implement the code in Apple devices. More investigation would have to be done in order to determine what it would take to implement the code in Android devices as well.
Another future avenue of research on the software will be applying the techniques and resources that this tools uses and adapting them to be applicable to languages beyond Chinese. Implementing other language libraries would most likely be a lot easier than implementing Mandarin because most other languages have alphabets. In addition to software, creating the physical device could also be another avenue of research depending on how far and how long the other parts of this project end up taking.

Beyond just creating a physical device another aspect of this project could be user interacting with the device. This will be a large step and be much harder to implement, but with user interaction the user could practice physically writing characters and be evaluated on that as they study with their flashcards. Adding user interaction would be a lot harder to implement because it has to account for user input and direction of strokes and order of strokes, and many other factors. The Inkstone GitHub repository does have user interaction in a similar way to Skritter, though Inkstone is free and open source. Working with Inkstone is also a future work but right now it is a deprecated library. This might be one direction for future work as well. Even if I don't end up trying to restore the Inkstone library that code will still be useful to work with and to understand. It would be possible to leverage code from it to add user interaction, and their library of characters.

Another idea could possibly be to download a language dictionary or library and use that to make the flashcards, and have this aspect as the main focus of my project. Going this route would most likely leverage and AI software or some other type of existing software to aid int eh process of turning pictures from textbooks into flashcards.

## References (And summaries of the articles and how it relates to the project)

### Scholarly Articles

1. Yifang Yang, Leijing Zhou, Rujian Li, Hang Yao, Jialu Song, Fangtian Ying. May 2019. Chinese Character Learning System. ACM Digital Library, Paper No.: LBW2218. https://dl.acm.org/doi/abs/10.1145/3290607.3312813 
This article looks at Chinese character learning for foreigners. It discusses recognizing and writing Chinese characters. It looks at using a projector system so users can practice writing characters on paper and then be graded on their written characters.
This relates to my project idea because it works with Chinese characters and checking stroke order. It uses a combination of software and hardware to do it. Though I plan on using an LCD screen while this article uses a projector, these projects are still largely similar.

2. Linjia Sun, Min Liu, Jiajia Hu, Xiaohui Liang. June 30, 2014. A Chinese Character Teaching System Using Structure Theory and Morphing Technology. PLOS ONE. https://journals.plos.org/plosone/article?id=10.1371/journal.pone.0100987 
This peer reviewed paper looks at generating an animation of the history of an individual character in order to help learners know and remember characters more effectively. In addition, this article considers different scripts of typing Chinese online and relates them to the most generic script. This helps Chinese beginners begin to see the relations between the scripts and recognize characters in other scripts. This article included a lot the mathematical considerations and vector combinations that would be considered in the animations and recognizations of Chinese characters.
This article doesn’t relate as directly to my project but it was important for me to see some of the vector equations and different mathematical considerations that go into defining Chinese characters on the screen. Though I don’t plan to work at such a ground level of programming. I hope to use already existing code with these mathematical equations already in use.

3. Tianwei Xie, Tao-chung Yao. 2007. Technology in Chinese Language Teaching and Learning. California State University and University of Hawaii at Manoa. http://eall.hawaii.edu/yao/TCSL08/TechnologyPaper.pdf 
This article considers CALL (Computer-Assisted Language Learning). It also gave many resources that could be helpful. However, this article was quite out of date.
This article specifically focuses of different technology in relating to teaching Chinese. Though most of it is outdated, it was helpful to see what the history behind the different resources that exist. I wonder which of them are open source or could use remodeling and revamping and then would be a great asset to my project.

4. Xianquan Liu, Justin Olmanson. 2016. A Technology-Supported Learning Experience to Facilitate Chinese Character Acquisition. The Nebraska Educator 3. https://digitalcommons.unl.edu/nebeducator/30/ 
This article introduces an exercise to engage a class and grow their learning of Chinese characters. There are different stages built around the idea of facilitating different learning techniques in the classroom. This article considers Chinese character learning specifically in the transition from pinyin to characters. It looks at recognizing the character and the radicals and strokes on the character and the pinyin and connecting the two. This whole article looks at how technology can help facilitate this growth. It looks at different phases and strategies to grow character knowledge.
This article was useful to learn and think more about facilitating learning activities and thinking about resources and focuses/goals that my app could target with character learning. However, it was quite targeted to teaching the information in the classroom, which doesn’t relate to my project.

5. Jie Lu, Sue Meng, Vincent Tam. October 17, 2014. Learning Chinese characters via moblie technology in a primary school classroom. Taylor and Francis Online, Pages 166-184. https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/09523987.2014.968448 
This article considers the app Mobilese and explains the different purposes of it and how the app uses different Chinese character learning techniques. This article considers these implications specifically in an elementary learning environment. This article also emphasizes the importance of software engineers considering the classroom and the input of teachers when designing. This article does a good job of helping to bridge the gap between the software and its functionality.
This article was helpful because it could help to facilitate the gap between the software engineers and the classroom use of the technology. This app is out of date and I couldn’t find it on the Apple Store but I will look into it more. It was helpful to see an app and how it worked and for the reasons behind the implementations. These are all things I will take into consideration as I create my device.

6. Kan Gian, Nathaniel Owen, Stephen Bax. Received 03 Aug 2017, Accepted 27 Oct 2017, Published online: 10 Jan 2018. Researching mobile-assisted Chinese-character learning strategies among adult distance learners. Taylor and Francis Online, Pages 56-71. https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/full/10.1080/17501229.2018.1418633
This article is one of the more recent articles I read - 2018, so still quite old. It considers major barriers to learning Chinese as a second language in western communities and considers 30 character learning strategies from another study. This article then does further testing on these learning strategies in an attempt to determine which strategies are most effective.
This article relates to what I am doing because it will help me consider the goals of my app. Therefore considering what features could be implemented based on different learning outcomes and desires.

7. Bochun Kang, Sicheng Kang. February 12 2022. Chinese Character Learning Information Platform Based on Multimedia Information Technology. Hindawi: Wireless Communications and Moblie Computing, Volume 2022, Article ID 1758129. https://www.hindawi.com/journals/wcmc/2022/1758129/
This article considers the idea of MIT which stands for multimedia information technology. This considers more how people study and their recall rates. This relates to my project in both considering the technology and considering how people learn.

### Code Implementation/Using Open CV Assistance

8. March 29, 2023. Reading an image in OpenCV using Python. Geeks for Geeks. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/reading-image-opencv-using-python/
9. Janurary 16, 2023. Image Resizing using OpenCV. Geeks for Geeks. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/image-resizing-using-opencv-python/
10. 17 June 2021. Python PIL | Image.crop() method.  Geeks for Geeks. https://www.geeksforgeeks.org/python-pil-image-crop-method/
